# Time-Series-UCI-Data-Set-Analysis
Individual household electric power consumption Data Set Analysis 
Link to dataset: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Individual+household+electric+power+consumption

To see visual analysis visit: 


Summary of  Paper: 
  		
                         Deep Neural Networks Applied to Energy Disaggregation

   The paper focuses on the utilization of the power of Neural Networks to make a prediction on unseen data for Energy disaggregation of five appliances. The authors used three types of networks  LSTM (a type of RNN), Denoising Autoencoders and a
neural network which regresses the start time, end time and average power demand of each appliance activation. The authors
used two disaggregation algorithms combinatorial optimization and factorial hidden Markov models as benchmarks to the disaggregation performance of three deep neural networks using seven metrics. The energy disaggregation might help users reduce their energy consumption or to help operators to manage the grid, or to identify faulty appliances, or to survey appliance usage behavior.

   
   The authors used the UK-DALE dataset as real aggregate data and also synthetic aggregate data which was generated by randomly combining real appliance activations because synthetic data acts as a regulariser in training of neural networks. The choices of appliances and the extraction of their activations were done so that complex patterns can be taken into account while training networks. The selection of windows of real aggregate data was done based on the selection of the target appliance such that the activation is captured completely in the window of data shown to the network while window width of synthetic aggregate data that the network sees is equal to the length of vectors which contains synthetic data. The standardization of data was done using mean and random standard deviation.
   
   The first neural network, LSTM uses one 1D convolution, two bidirectional LSTM, and two fully connected layers. At each time step, the LSTM network sees a single sample of aggregate power data and outputs a single sample of power data for the target appliance. The second network, Denoising Autoencoders uses two  1D convolutions and three fully connected layers. The entire Denoising Autoencoders network is trained end-to-end in one go.The third network for regression of  Start Time, End Time & Power uses two 1D convolutions and five fully connected layers.All three networks have a wide variation in the number of trainable
parameters. The parameter for  Denoising Autoencoders network range from 1M to 150M, LSTM had 1M parameters and the Regression network varied from 28M to 120M parameters. All network weights were initialized randomly.
   
   
   After model testing, the authors find that on the unseen data both the denoising autoencoder and the net which regresses the start time, end time and power outperform CO and FHMM on every appliance on F1 score, precision score, the proportion of total energy correctly assigned and mean absolute error. The LSTM out-performs CO and FHMM on two-state appliances but falls behind CO and FHMM on multi-state appliances.
   
   
  The authors concluded that it is worth noting that the comparison between each architecture is not entirely fair because the architectures have a wide range of trainable parameters. The work represents just a first step towards adopting the vast number of techniques from the deep learning community to Energy Disaggregation. With training on more data for generalization and combining unsupervised pre-training with supervised training for every network can result in better results.

